so today is October the 8th is the
package managers weekly sync up and I'm
Dirk and let's get started alright so I
didn't do you have any updates on my PS
a little bit things are are mostly solid
and gonna be paused for a while while I
move on to other things there's some
pub/sub stuff getting finished which is
just mostly gonna end up being like just
a couple of rounds of like just back in
back and forth the remaining non-trivial
thing I guess is efficiently caching
pairs that we've tried to discover
already basically if you build a cache
and the cache returns multiple pairs and
then this thing is gonna be accessed
from multiple different threads then
there needs to be some sort of state in
there that says like I have already
tried this and maybe some sort of back
off of like when to try again Steven was
concerned about what happens when like
how frequently do we try connecting two
pairs that we've already tried and
failed to connect to before if we keep
discovering them and we keep trying and
failing them like what are we gonna do
about that I'll probably just do
something simple and if we want to use
like an X another layer of exponential
back-off things we can probably do that
as well
yeah I've definitely implemented this
before it's probably something I should
be in repeatedly right yeah well so I
already i made a in the discovery thing
I tried to make some like generic
exponential back-off things which maybe
I can use or just generic back office
including linear back off but we'll see
not I can ask there's been I guess I did
a little bit of work although it's
probably gonna not get finished for oil
on extracting names on like refactoring
the name sis interfaces like a pretty
good start but if it's gonna need a
bunch of time and I don't think this
corner is necessarily gonna have that so
what are you working on this quarter
yeah so this quarter is between now and
whenever the testing infrastructure is
good enough for me to start hammering on
DHT things it's gonna be some amount of
like miscellaneous stuff plus IP FS add
performance so that includes like
there's some pinning bugs that I'm I'm
fixing now there's there's the config
file stuff which needs to get fixed so
that we can actually you know I have the
defaults normally like have actually
controllable defaults and be able to set
things to true by default would be nice
and I don't know
I'm helping daveed figure out how to
spin up like give us instances for for
testing things I can get into that a
little bit so this is a bunch of like
miscellaneous stuff and then start
looking at performance more okay cool so
the most the most kind of package
manager' II think I guess is the
performance yeah okay
I think we have a sectional further down
and that will ask you about it so any
questions for a dinner bell a penis okay
so the next section is bit swap updates
so um yesterday I kind of finished off
like really decent version of the that's
my work I've been doing and
collaboration partner ran it I found
that it was it was a lot better and
what's out there master sorry so that
this week I think I'm gonna concentrate
on like really making a bullet for
fixing up all the tests and everything
yeah I think that's it'll probably take
me logically and then I'm not sure
exactly what the next steps are gonna be
there so I'm gonna find that out as well
then you don't have any questions about
them yeah yes I mean we don't this now
honoring your thoughts on I as I
mentioned yesterday the I suspect that
when the PAP is ready to put more time
into pub/sub they're gonna have to think
about like hey this randomly running
into peers isn't working we need to form
trees and they're gonna want to use the
same metrics in any event the entire
system is just like send a message get a
message so I'm wondering if there's a
way to like it even makes sense I guess
like suck some of the components out of
its off and like give them to the p2p to
deal with yeah I agree I think that
there's a lot of information in ipfs
that's in kind of like different
subsystems and it's like a waste because
then we we ask for the same stuff
multiple times in different places so I
think that's probably something that
needs to be very carefully thought out
so it sounds like Luke p2p is not not
quite at the place where they're going
to be implementing this is that right
not clear I mean so there's some stuff
that's like already there for instance
the have like you know I have I want is
already like part of pub/sub like they
already went in like in a sense like
reimplemented that I don't know when
they're gonna get around to doing the
tree broadcasting I imagine it will be
as soon as somebody starts trying to use
this in production and realizes that
randomly running into peers is not what
they wanted so quick question is the I
have I want is that a block CID no but
that is an excellent question as well
because it's the the identifier for a
message is a peer ID and a number the
things are not ordered they're just like
this is the number we hope they're
incrementing but there was someone
Stephen and some other folks have been
interested in like having pub/sub but
using like cid like having a sort of
reliable in a sense pub/sub where i just
have like a chain of I have a CID that's
just like a growing list of all of the
prior messages that I cared about or
maybe they don't have to care maybe I
maybe I decide it's not reliable and I
just send you see IDs for each message
right um okay interesting and one of the
someone tried to implement this in
Russell it p2p I don't think that PR got
merged but they wanted to do that as an
option and I think that it's probably
worth doing that okay it's probably I
mean that sounds like kind of a longer
conversation but I was just curious if
it's if the existing messages are like
exactly analogous to visible so the
thing is they they could be they're just
strings so I had a PR earlier this year
that basically instead of using that
just used in IP and s key as the as the
message identifier base
so it is doable if we wanted to okay so
I guess the takeaway there is we should
probably think how we can we can save us
from doing extra work by like sharing
information across different bits of the
architecture yeah I mean the bit soft
case is obviously like different in that
you only have one layer to traverse like
I'm only directly talking to my peers
they might happen to also find out about
data from someone else but there's no
like the requests aren't being
propagated they're just it's just one
layer you know we should maybe okay
let's keep that in the notes and that's
maybe coordinate with Stephen when he
gets back and talk to her what we should
do that okay so Alex do you have some
any updates about unit FS new 1.5
I'm not really waiting for stallion to
come up with his proposed solution to
having the metadata in the directory
rather than on the farm and obviously
he's out so is that something someone
else can propose and you can kind of
just look at and approve or disapprove
well it's a good question I was just
reading back on the issue and the last
kind of note goes to the design
direction was that there was a sync
discussion in which it was decided to do
it the other way which oh it's just you
know just pink thing on there and just
said has it's been documented anyway
because I always know it's all in
Stephens head okay so it sounds like he
needs to be yeah to be part of that
conversation
any questions rallies where we're
planning on putting in the time and
stuff right that's
is that that's part of it that's part of
this whole thing is like if I understand
there's like two bits to this one is one
is an execute bit and the other is like
M time so I believe what we discussed
was the what seems likely to happen is
that we will be storing the entire mode
and then some form of time likely the
end time I know there was some talk
about C time being you know tricky with
this or maybe useless or something so
I'm not really sure what's going in
besides the full mode but most likely a
mode and a time at the very least
and this is mostly just to enable our
sink right more or less yeah
there's also what the the geek scholars
were asking for there's basically the
executable bit like I think the the rest
of it seems to be a nice to have
unless it's here then required for a
sink but person geeks were just off to
the executable bit yeah I mean yeah I
feel like those are like very different
those are very different things the
execute bit is like he's like yeah right
some of some places need it
some places like some systems needed
some are like windows and are like do
you end in Exe if so actually keep it
the other is the whole time thing is a
whole different COFF COFF unix the first
optical yeah yeah the m time thing is
like a whole different story but if we
just want to do it for now to enable our
sync like whatever
in theory that the mode bits should I
guess provide a lot for archival stuff
of like anything there since you can
just say here's the permissions here's
the type here's the whether it's
executable or not so it covers like the
executable case but it should should be
a little bit more useful it's a little
vague to be honest I know Andrew was
supposed to be talking with Steven about
it and they likely did but nothing and
it's coming that yup so I guess we'll
see you in spec
okay um so I'm gonna kill you have any
updates on the amount I do
so yesterday I spent some time basically
going over some of the feedback that
I've gotten on it particularly in
relation to like how memory is allocated
and how references are derived and stuff
like that and then I generalized a lot
of the traversal logic so everything
basically just implements this interface
and it's good to go messing with that
seems quite a bit better however I'm
getting some weird issues around
returning or operating on the wrong
reference so something's opened and then
right is called on it and it thinks that
it's not open because something's not
signed properly so I'm looking into that
but outside of outside of some of the
right bugs um seems to be going well so
that's around that on that
all right any questions for the diamond
cool okay I didn't
so you mentioned before you probably us
that taking a look at a performance now
yeah I mean I haven't done like I had an
initial conversation with Stephen before
the forty line out of town of trying to
think of like a few things avenues to go
look at you know maybe like one of these
is you know about we paralyzed rights
but we sort of synchronously flushed
everything to discs that sort of is
gonna end up like choking it or you know
a few other like miscellaneous things
like that um I sort of just need to get
my like set up for testing like I need a
you know set up some scripts that are
gonna like actually let me go test this
and see how it goes and and then we'll
we'll see what helps I you know I even
just set up the initial benchmarking
things I know you had some of that and
there's some issues there is there any
like any other code or advice you have
for how to look at this so I created a
PR I don't know if you can look at that
and which is extremely rough it's just
like you know me thrown together ideas
but inside that PR um it like it'll
actually set up like a data structure
you know you know you can set up
different ones at different sizes so you
can test out kind of different scenarios
for ad so that may or may not be useful
I mean you might just want to use um I
think it's DD whatever the name of the
tool is that sort of like generates a
blob of random data might be no end up
being easier than using my acting other
thing but yeah any questions you have
I'm happy to know walkthrough know
whatever if you want to take the time
do you have a rough idea of like how it
all works to begin with like adding uh
not at like the code architecture level
like you know conflict levels not so
hard cut architecture level there's a
lot more there I haven't really looked
at yet yeah it took me probably like a
week oats me to actually figure it out
like it's very very complicated when
it's coming down three different layers
you know there's like UNIX FS layer and
there's the dag layer block layer yeah I
have some of the links to like like the
buffer like the other buffer dag and I
killed thee caching in the block store
and areas that I'm like okay I need to
go like press like you know f11 a whole
bunch of times and figure out where this
was going
exactly yeah yeah so I do despise that P
I was gonna try to explain in a general
way what it's doing and so that's like
right at the top but it might take some
plumbing to to kind of understand in
particular I was doing is that PR and
link to from your issue with like the
graphs and stuff actually the issue is
where I explained it I think and then
there should be a reckon summary to the
branch I think I might've just put it as
a link under one of the graphs like code
you a spreadsheet slash code there's no
where to slash good okay so is that a PR
or is that just in your person yeah the
problem is with the with the hard links
is like they give you the file but I
can't find out if there's a newer one on
that branch because I don't know what
branch it came from okay let me okay
yeah all right thanks
just like slacking tenir something any
questions for Dane about
so yes maybe a question for you der is
like so I talked to Steven about this I
was a little skeptical of working out
before missus quarter just because of
how long it took you to get started and
then being like so if I spend a month
getting into this and then I haven't
pivot to the DHT thing like I've we now
have two people that are like know
what's going on but not had time to fix
it it's the best use of time like um
and Stevens guess was that there's
probably like fixing it TM is like or
making it much more efficient is could
be a while but that there might be like
one or two of these things that might in
Vil result in like a pretty dramatic
speed-up does that seem plausible or is
that like very wishful thinking I think
basically the conclusion we came to is
we're gonna need to mess around with the
way it works so I don't think it's gonna
happen fast honestly I think at least if
the last thing we were discussing that
issue was like changing fundamentally
the way that it it sort of ordered stuff
so you know in order to properly test
that I think it's probably gonna take a
while okay well yeah I think up and yeah
well we'll see how this how this all
ends up going I'm trying to make sure at
least I get some of like the
miscellaneous housekeeping bugs that are
blocking people from doing things out of
the way yeah I think that's whoring it's
a smart approach and ipfs data store
performance I guess that's Steven
you don't know about that I guess not
and okay so then we just got a plug his
asks questions in parking lot does
anyone have any any of those Dominic and
Alex that either you see goes allah's
unix of sp2 thing the link to the jump
rope
i saw it i didn't get a chance to read
it
i started listening to the talk it was
really just it was life pretty
distracting somebody some other stuff at
the time i haven't quite worked out hard
to do that like listen to a talk and
then code at the same time is just with
with that talk i don't think i mean
maybe it's just me I couldn't do it I
feel like you gotta look at some of the
slides also and be like okay this is
what they're doing I don't think it's
actually necessarily so dissimilar from
what we want to do anyway I think it's
just a particular like maybe I
misinterpreted it but I think it's just
a particular flavor on it which is like
okay like that's why I was trying to
compare it to like the different
chunker's it's like yeah I mean you can
have the same data structure and then
glue a bunt if they have links you can
glue the links together and like
arbitrary ways right um but that that
kind of structure might be efficient I
don't know it's and they were they were
it was interested in like more
sequential things right how do you I
want to ask for a bite range right which
I think UNIX must be to you want to do
in general is like because all of your
file system commands operate on a bite
range right
so it'd be nice to yell just access like
a chunk of stuff bye-bye bites I feel
like that something will likely be
exploring more as we get closer once
once one-point-five lands we can make
considerations about to right yeah
although I perhaps I got this wrong the
difficult thing obviously is every time
you have like a new a new data format
[Music]
the some percentage of the data will
become inaccessible to a new version of
the same a new formatted version of the
same file which is like really annoying
and so that's why we don't want to like
iterate on this quite as rapidly as
maybe we do other stuff but
which is why I think 1.5 is yeah okay
like everyone knows this isn't gonna
last very long let's do it
but like I don't know I don't know how
long it's gonna last
right it's definitely an issue I
remember like kind of tangentially
related someone was mentioning about
schema changes between like different
schema versions and things like that and
migrating from or having interrupts
between newer versions of applications
with newer versions of the schemas still
talking to the older ones like that and
while I don't know what much came of
that conversation I know that Eric Meyer
was excited to talk about that with this
person so hopefully things of that
nature are being considered so that we
don't end up in situations like that I
guess we're where the data becomes
useless or something like that in a new
iteration but it's definitely something
I specifically want to look into is all
this stuff I was supposed to there about
these formats it would be nice to use
one that we are not going to regret
later I guess or or think a little bit
about like the upgrade path right like
that's the Li area we don't have upgrade
paths for is that's one of the big areas
are not great paths for is you you've
changed around the structure of the data
but it's underlying the same thing
yeah I imagine the geeks people and all
that are probably very focused on
similar things to of like when it comes
to reproducibility right like I want to
just always construct the same exact
object regardless of what I am capable
of I guess if I have a new schema I
might still only use the old one and all
that I mean there's even like
lower-level things right where I use
literally the exact same everything
except I switch from like CID v02 CID v1
maybe or any times different than mine
yeah I mean and I'm saying even that's
like not the day even even not really at
the data layer if you're like I just
want to change the hash function or I
want to change the version of the CID
like the whole all the metadata has
changed
the file date is still the same so if
you get got still may be okay because
the metadata is small maybe there's a
way to like advertise both metadata
structures together minutes left so I'm
going to just things we did before the
ends um so one is last week I think
Steven was asking about whether whether
we feel like this meeting is like useful
if you want to keep doing every week is
there an to have a strong opinion about
that at the moment I didn't go your
mouth open speech I'm not sure I I'm
just thinking like if the if the
implementers meeting yesterday on
Mondays was not always so tight on time
this might not be necessary because
we're all sort of working on fairly
different things but given that that's
not the case having like having a
meeting that's not super long once a
week that has like a little bit of flex
time with parking lot stuff and then I
feel like not so bad yeah that makes
sense
do you have an opinion no a strong
opinion I me a lot of the stuff that's
discussed in this meeting I didn't have
a direct input on but I mean I think
it's useful to know what's going on yeah
owner if we can sort of keep it a bit
more on track maybe so that it is
relevant to all of us and then kind of
like move some of the more technical
discussions so like other channels so
I'm gonna do you have a oh sorry Alex
what are you gonna say
more self-flagellation but it's more
like I should just gave over the go code
place as well I mean that's painful I
guess I mean the meaning really is
supposed to be about package management
though it's not really supposed to be
just to go meeting
we are developers now and we're going to
talk about development only do you have
any thoughts none in particular I think
like not a lot of strong feeling one way
or the other it is a little strange the
ordering I kind of wish that we had this
before the core implementations recall
but that is what it is it does feel like
there's a lot of overlap at least in the
notes of like what we talked about and
what we won't we bring up but we do talk
about it a lot more in depth here
so yeah that's true
yeah I kind of figure with you and I
think that this is kind of a nice place
to have a bit more space and talk about
stuff and but maybe we don't need to
actually put in the weekly updates 5
which no one did today that I don't
think it's really adding much ok so I
guess let's keep going with this meeting
um anything else anyone wants to bring
up we got about five minutes left I just
wanted to mention Alex that if you are
interested in getting all in the coat
and then go code buy stuff it can be a
little rough um and it's like yeah it
can be a little rough so like recommend
reaching out to a person cuz the
examples like the Lib p2p examples have
gotten better the ipfs examples are
still not great because there's like
designed for people who want to use like
the daemon or used like the HTTP API to
talk to the daemon and you're like okay
I couldn't just done this from
JavaScript I have a daemon I have a I
feel that's client there's like a HTTP
client there too um so yeah if you want
to start getting more into the weeds hey
we we need more than examples but be a
successful friend
alright I think that's it so oh the one
other thing I don't think we're doing
stand-ups anymore right or at least we
don't have any on the calendar okay I
guess we'll wait till Steven slash Molly
get back to talk about that the thing on
the knowledge-sharing thing on Thursday
I guess is just is gonna be us again
right cuz I think okay cool
does anyone have anything prepared for
that yeah I don't do you guys not it I
went I guess maybe we can skip it
because I don't think anyone's got
anything to share I think I don't know
we could potentially like just figure it
out at the time and be like hey has
anyone run into anything weird last
couple it is probably won't be me cuz
I'm out tomorrow but yeah maybe we can
discuss inside if people have want to
get some feedback on some ideas or if
they work yeah yeah that actually sounds
pretty good is to have that little
unprepared should be nice to just go and
say I have a question about this
javascript thing or this IPS thing
etcetera etcetera all right I will talk
to you guys
[Music]